I don't think the paper's conclusion is correct.  The conclusion is
the limiting factor is due to the body's inability to process enough
calories, but I think of it as a question of which is the linkest weak
in the chain, and calorie processing seems unlikely to me.  From an
evolutionary perspective, calorie availability as well as quality of
calories were probably much more variable than other "things".
Overall, if endurance is important, then evolution is going to create
a chain without disproportionately weak links, because the individuals
who have stronger links in those places are going to get a bigger
return on their adaptation than on some other minor advantage.

So, from my perspective, the claim that we're calorie processing
limited is an extraordinary one and it requires extraordinary proof.
I don't see that proof in the paper, although I do see a variety of
factors that could mislead someone to jump to the wrong conclusion.

I think everyone agrees that the harder you push yourself, the more
"damage" you do to your body and consequentially, the more time you
need to recover from it.  Some things seem to aid recovery: sleep.
Some things appear to interfere with recovery (lack of sleep!, lack of
nutrients).  My issue is that the study relied fairly heavily on the
Race Across the USA, which seems opportunistic rather than the best
source of data.  Yes, participants lost weight as they went, but they
were doing something that was new to their bodies and bodies don't
adapt instantly.  To anthropomorphize, bodies simply don't trust what
you're telling them, because conditions often change.

Since how far you get when running is a function of how long you push
and how fast you push, and since caloric requirements are also a
function of those two, then if there's a third function of those two,
then whether or not caloric deficit is the limiting factor or the
third function is the limiting factor, the third function and caloric
deficit are going to be extremely correlated.  So we get back into
correlation not proving causation.

Using hand-wavy terms, one third function is simply "damage".  For
example, when I'm doing a long endurance event, eventually my feet get
sore.  How sore they get is dependent both on how long I'm on them as
well as how quickly I'm running.  My *guess*, however, is that I could
do a marathon of walking every day, forever, if I had the incentive to
do so.  This is based on a huge amount of personal experience,
including having run a tough fifty miler (the Jemez Mountain Trail Run
50 miler) and then riding my bike in a medium difficulty century
(hundred mile bike ride) the following day as well as having finished
the Tahoe 200, where I ran/hiked roughly 50 miles a day for four days
straight.

In the case of the back-to-back 50Mi run paired with the 100Mi bike
ride, my feet got a little sore toward the end of the bike ride.  By
the end of Tahoe 200, however, my feet and legs were considerably
swollen.  However, a slow marathon is *much* easier on my feet than
JMTR50M or any of the T200 days.  Additionally, a calorie deficit did
not appear to be the case for either of those events, because I had
plenty of time when my body wasn't particularly stressed and it could
easily process a lot more calories per hour.

drunk looking for a quarter under a street lamp

Ed Ettinghausen
Marshall Ulrich (esp. his race across the country)
Michael Wardian
Courtney Dewaulter (sp!)
Jason Koop
Michael Phelps -- swimming has less impact than running and distributes
                  the work amongst more muscles than running or cycling

the RAUSA members

going out too fast

Even Marshall did that when he went across the US: stress fracture

woman RAUSA member who got the stress fracture

kidneys
  can be stressed due to ibuprofen

Their own TdF quote / stats w/o the weight loss

dopers don't use substances that appear to be associated with caloric
intake, instead, at least some appears to be blood oxygen related

rule of thumb: 100 calories per mile, regardless of pace, so the people
running RAUSA would be burning an additional 2,200 calories per day, less
than a whole pizza

hard to consume calories when HR is up, but the other damage being
done to the body is much greater, but HR doesn't even have to be up
particularly high to move 22 miles in 6 hours, that's slower than a
15-minute walking pace, but even if you assume that the participant
could only process 200 calories per hour during those six hours,
you're looking a caloric deficit of 1,200 that you get to make up over
the remaining 18 hours, which is less than 100 calories an hour. *Six*
small candy bars, one every three hours, in addition to maintenance
calories would be sufficient.

Ran WMFS50k on October 20th, 32 miles, spent 6:45:54 @ 130bpm, lost weight
that day, starting at 151.5 in the morning and 149.8 the following day.
That was a 1.7 pound loss, *BUT* I knew I would be leading the Duke City
Marathon 5 hour pace group the final day, so I did not spend a lot of time
celebrating and indeed I ran the 5 hour marathon the following day and my
average heart rate was only 114bpm, which means I could consume way more
than 300 calories per hour
